[NAME=Diana]Happy: Ok, so now that you’re here, we could start with our daily patrol.
Idle: This entire map represents our Area of Jurisdiction, anything in here is under our protection and any ships that go through here must be inspected by us.
Happy: Mostly it's just either Tourists or illegal fishermen that go through here and they usually come from the ends of the map.
Idle: There are occasions of Research Boats coming through here too.
Happy: Anyway, let’s teach you how to adjust your view.
Happy: Use the W, A, S, D keyboard buttons or move the mouse to the corner of the screen to move the camera from side to side.
[ACTION=WASD]Happy: To zoom in, use the Mousewheel, R, or F.
[ACTION=RF]Happy: There we go, now let's move on to the patrol.
Idle: Since we can only travel so much in 2 hours, the Patrol Boat can move only 10 tiles per turn.
Happy: Click on the boat and right click on the spot you want to go to.
Happy: Then, click on the prompt ‘Patrol’.
Happy: Do this on the spot I marked on the map.
[ACTION=Patrol]Idle: Next on our agenda is to check on the reef’s state.
Happy: Click on the boat and select a spot close to one of the buoys.
Happy: Right click on the reef and select ‘Check Reef Health’.
Happy: Do this on the spot I marked on the map.
[ACTION=CheckReefHealth]Happy: Ok, well the reef is looking great and healthy. Our job is to make sure that it’s health doesn’t go down to the point that there would be nothing to save anymore, where’s the fun in that right?
Happy: We also need to document its condition everytime we check on the reef.
Happy: We can maintain its health by looking out for stuff like rowdy tourists doing things that can hurt the reef or illegal fishermen looking for stuff to catch and sell.
Happy: Speaking of tourists, we just got word that there is an unidentified ship coming near the area.
Happy: Probably tourists, but we’re still not sure cause we still don’t have an AIS a.k.a. the Automatic Identification System.
Happy: We really need to get that thing as soon as we can, Manuel keeps on bugging us about that.
[ACTION=InspectTourist1]Happy: There they are. Yeah they're tourists, you can see that they know the protocol to head towards marked buoys to indicate safe areas that they can go to.
Concerned: Ok, we need to do an inspection. Head over to them.
[ACTION=MoveAttempt]Idle: But ahh, as you can see, we can't go any farther right now.
Happy: We should end the turn.
Happy: Click the “End Turn” button on the bottom right of the screen,
Happy: This will let us travel 10 tiles again with the Patrol Boat and let the other boats in the map move.
[Action=EndTurn]Happy: Alright, now, move next to them, then right click on them and click ‘Inspect Tourists’.
Concerned: These tourists are directed by dive companies that the Tubbataha Management Office and the Tubbataha Protected Area Management Board have accredited.
Idle: Now see if their information slip matches the correct one.
Happy: The accredited companies should know the rules and therefore would have slips that exactly match.
Concerned: If these hold up then we can let them go, but if it not, they need to pay a fine.
Concerned: We also need to report to the Management Office in the mainland about our inspections if ever we might face up against violators in court.
[ACTION=InspectTourist2]Idle: After inspecting the tourists, they need our help in mooring their boat on the dive spot.
Happy: Wait for them to reach the spot and they’ll alert us with the red highlight.
Idle: Move right next to them and right click.
Idle: Click Moor and we’re done.
[ACTION=InspectTourist3]Idle: Now, you see the green bar on top of the Patrol Boat?
Concerned: Yeah. That’s the amount of gas we have left in the engine
Happy: We need gas for our Patrol Boat. Click on the Service Boat anchored near our Station.
Happy: This boat is used to repair and refill the gas in our Patrol Boat.
Idle: The controls for it are the same with the Patrol Boat but since it’s sluggish and heavy, it can only move 4 tiles per turn.
Idle: You know what?
Happy: Just let the Patrol Boat move to it, it’s going to be a lot easier rather than waiting for it haha!
[ACTION=Refuel]Happy: Ok good! Patrol Boat refueled and ready to go
Idle: We also need to give a report to the Management Office in the mainland ASAP about our inspections, so that if ever we might face up against violators in court, we have evidence.
Idle: As soon as we’re done, we need to get back to the station.
Concerned: Manuel said on the radio that we need to setup the planned Radar before it gets dark.
[ACTION=MoveBack]Idle: Ok now we’re here, go to the build menu to start building the Radar--!
Concerned: Ohh right! We need research, we can’t build it without knowing anything about it.
Happy: Click on the Research button, the magnifying glass, then click on the Radar icon to start on researching it.
Happy: The radar is just one of the many upgrades you can make for the station and the staff.
Happy: Each upgrade can do unique things that will help you in your daily tasks or add boosts to the resources.
Happy: Doing tasks like checking reef health, doing bird counts, monitoring clams and assisting research boats can give you research points.
[ACTION=Research]Idle: Now that it’s ready, try building it. Select one of the tiles adjacent to the station and right-click.
[ACTION=Build]3: Click on the Radar button near the Research button.
[ACTION=UseRADAR]Concerned: It looks like we spotted some unidentified ships with the radar, a good thing too since those pesky illegal fishermen mostly come at night when it’s hard to spot them.
Idle: So I’m going to send the report to the Office about this possible confrontation with violators.
Concerned: This is going to be a hassle in court and for Julio haha, since he is the Protocol Officer.
Happy: Go on and hurry to the boat! We need to get to them before they start damaging the marine life.
Idle: Go on and hurry to the boat! We need to get to them before they start damaging the marine life.
[ACTION=CatchFisherman]Idle: Now we’ve caught them, we have to check on the reef if they did any damage.
Concerned: Go to the reefs and check their health.
[ACTION=CheckReefHealth2]Happy: No damage? That’s good to hear, imagine if these guys actually planned on doing dangerous stuff rather than just catching fishes.
Idle: We gotta go back to the station and detain these violators there until Management sends someone to pick them up.
Idle: And we need to make another report detailing everything that happened and what we found about these guys.
Concerned: Julio might also have to go to the Mainland for a while to testify as a witness during the trial of these guys.
Happy: Well it looks like that’s it for today, we can head back to the station now.
EndQueue